



# Summary



* Software Summary, Videos and Features
    * Hardware: This project is meant to compile on a PC and deploy to Hololens2 (but might work with modification on Mac Standalone or PC / Hololens1 and phones).
    * Summary of features: see [features list](https://github.com/shankar-r19/CYBS-MArkdown-files/blob/main/1.2.%20AR%20CYB%20Software%20Features.md)
    </br>
* Multiplayer info
    * This project uses Photon for networking but uses a server-client model for managing the multiplayer actions. The project is meant to run on 1 or more Hololens devices (the clients) and one computer running the project in Unity Editor (the server, or what Photon calls the ‘master client’).

	</br>
* Licensing


  * This project contains multiple software libraries, described in LICENSES.TXT file. The Harvard project is licensed under MIT license. The external libraries are licensed under their respective licenses, and any use of third party code included in this software or third party libraries linked the software is subject to the third party licenses pertaining to such third party code.

</br>

# Downloading the Project
</br>


* Hardware requirements
	* Minimum: This project will run on a Windows PC (in Unity Editor) without any other devices.
	* Intended: This project is meant to be run on Windows PC (in Unity Editor, or built for Standalone or UWP) with a connected Arduino, and on multiple Hololens 2 (UWP) devices
	* Optional: It has been used (after modification) on Android mobile and on iOS mobile, in multiplayer mode together with a Windows PC and Hololens users. It can probably also work on iOS built as Unity Standalone.ification) on Android mobile and on iOS mobile, in multiplayer mode together with a Windows PC and Hololens users. It can probably also work on iOS built as Unity Standalone.
	 </br>
* Suggestions before you start:
	* If you plan to use Arduino, it’s suggested you use an Arduino Uno device (because the examples will be configured for that)
	* If you plan to deploy on Hololens 2, it’s suggested that you just start with making & deploying a basic MRTK project to your Hololens by following the  [official documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/paths/beginner-hololens-2-tutorials/) . That way you get an understanding of tools, MRTK and the deployment pipeline before tackling this project. NOTE - we are using MRTK 2.4

	</br>
* Download the prerequisite tools
    * Required for any platform:
        * Unity LTS 2020.3.12f1 from: [https://unity3d.com/unity/qa/lts-releases](https://unity3d.com/unity/qa/lts-releases) 
        * Git command line [https://git-scm.com/downloads](https://git-scm.com/downloads) (can use default options when installing)
    * If working with Arduino: download the [Arduino IDE](https://www.arduino.cc/en/software)
    * If working with Hololens2:
        * Tools for deploying to Hololens 2 (*you will not need the Emulator, but you will definitely need Unity and Visual Studio configured properly) [https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/mixed-reality/develop/install-the-tools](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/mixed-reality/develop/install-the-tools) 

	</br>
* Download and clone the project GIT repository
  1. Download the [project git repository folder ](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1OYXOLFBOB_wIsSvPIqhKmE9DUbjhJddI?usp=sharing)and unzip it into a local folder (we will refer to this as folder “A”): 
  2. Make a new empty local folder in a different place on your computer. (This new folder is where you will clone that git - we will refer to this as folder “B”)
  3. Open a Command Prompt window
      1. Go into folder B (using the **CD** command)
      2. Clone the git branch publicStable into folder A, by running the following command after after replacing “A” with the full path to folder A: 

              git clone --single-branch --branch publicStable --depth=1 "A\CYBS_MainProject.git"

  4. Once that’s completed, you should be able to open the project folder B in Unity. It will take a while (~10 minutes) the first time you run it.
  5. Next, read the sections below and play with sample scenes.

	</br>
# Read before Running the Application


Things you will need to do in Unity before you start

  * Change the Photon App ID (accessed in the Photon “Highlight Network Settings” menu) to a new one that you get from the Photon dashboard [https://dashboard.photonengine.com/](https://dashboard.photonengine.com/)
	</br>
### Running multiple users

* You can test multiple users in either of these forms:
    * One user on your computer in Unity Editor and 1+ users in the Hololens.
    * Two users on your computer (build one Standalone version and run in parallel with the Unity editor)
    * Run two users on different computers (run through Unity Editor on two computers)
* Things to remember
    * All users will join the same scene. So, the scene must be listed in the Scenes in Build, under the Unity project’s Build Settings. If you make a new scene you’ll need to rebuild the app for all users.
    * All users will need to have their projects configured with the same Photon App ID, otherwise they will be in different Photon games and they won’t see each other. 
    * Before doing any activity in the project, all users must be connected to the same room. Otherwise things like creating 3D models through the menus may not synchronize for users that join late.
	</br>
### When running the project

  * There's a little network display window that follows the unity camera; if it's blue it means Photon connected properly, if it's purple it means there's a problem with networking and you should just restart the unity simulation (i think this is a photon bug)
  * To interact with game objects you will need to switch to Creation mode, either by using the virtual hand to push on the "Create" button that's hovering in the scene, or by clicking the "C" button on the GUI
  * You can use the ManualDataChannel to modify a channel’s value.
	</br>
### Known issues

* Photon connectivity
    * There's a little network display window that follows the unity camera; if it's blue it means Photon connected properly, if it's purple it means there's a problem with networking
        * This happens when the current scene isn’t in the Scenes in Build list. When building the project, the scene you’re working in has to be in the Build Settings > Scenes in Build.
        * This sometimes happens if the project took too long to start (in that case, just restart it)
* Sending data to Arduino
    * When Unity sends too many messages, sometimes it sends multiple messages concatenated together or fragmented, and Arduino doesn’t receive them properly. {I think this is a threading issue in the SerialController class}
    * When Unity sends a serial message, it will also receive the same message. {I think this is an issue in the SerialController class}
	</br>
### Read Next:


 [Table of Contents for All Documentation](https://github.com/shankar-r19/CYBS-MArkdown-files/blob/main/0.%20Documentation%20Table%20of%20Contents.md)

[Example Sample Scenes](https://github.com/shankar-r19/CYBS-MArkdown-files/blob/main/2.1%20Sample%20Scenes.md)

[Introduction to Interactions and Menus](https://github.com/shankar-r19/CYBS-MArkdown-files/blob/main/2.2.%20Intro%20to%20User%20Interactions%20and%20Menus.md)

[Quick Introduction to the Code](https://github.com/shankar-r19/CYBS-MArkdown-files/blob/main/3.0.%20Quick%20Introduction%20to%20the%20Code%20.md)
