# Downloading the Project

* Hardware requirements
  
  * Minimum: Can just run on a in Unity Editor without any other devices
  
  * Intended: Run on Windows PC (in Unity Editor, or built for Standalone or UWP) with a connected Arduino, and on multiple Hololens 2 (UWP) devices
  
  * Optional: It has been used (after modification) on Android mobile and on iOS mobile.

* Suggestions before you start:
  
  * If you plan to use Arduino, it’s suggested you use an Arduino Uno device (because the examples will be configured for that)
  
  * This project uses MRTK. If you plan to deploy on Hololens 2, it’s suggested that you just start with making & deploying a basic MRTK project to your Hololens by following the  [official documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/paths/beginner-hololens-2-tutorials/) . That way you get an understanding of tools, MRTK, and the deployment pipeline before tackling this project. NOTE - we are using MRTK 2.4

1. **Download the prerequisite software versions**
  
    * **This project is built for Unity LTS 2020.3.35f1** from: [https://unity3d.com/unity/qa/lts-releases](https://unity3d.com/unity/qa/lts-releases) 
  
    * If working with Arduino: download the [Arduino IDE](https://www.arduino.cc/en/software)
  
    * If working with Hololens2: Get tools for deploying to Hololens 2 (*you will not need the Emulator, but you will definitely need Unity and Visual Studio configured properly) [https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/mixed-reality/develop/install-the-tools](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/mixed-reality/develop/install-the-tools) 

1. Download or clone the Git repository from here (where you are reading these instructions)

1. Open the Unity project and then deploy/run the example scene: [2.1 Example Sample Scenes](./2.1_Sample_Scenes.md)

# Read before Running the Application

### Things you will need to do in Unity before you start

* This project uses Photon for networking. You will need to change the Photon App ID (accessed in the Photon “Highlight Network Settings” menu, or in the file PhotonServerSettings.asset) to a new one that you get from the Photon dashboard [https://dashboard.photonengine.com/](https://dashboard.photonengine.com/)
  * Note if you are hosting your own git repository: This repository's .gitignore is ignoring updates to PhotonServerSettings.asset; intentional so that people don't upload their own Photon IDs to the main repository. 

### Running multiple users

* Multiplayer info
  
  * This project uses Photon for networking and uses a server-client model for managing the multiplayer actions.
  * The project is meant to run on one main computer running the project in Unity Editor (the server, or what Photon calls the ‘master client’), and 0 or more other clients (typically on AR/VR devices)

* You can test multiple users in either of these forms:
  
  * One user on your computer in Unity Editor and 1+ users in the Hololens.
  * Two users on your computer (one in Unity Editor, and the other built in Standalone version)
  * Two users on different computers (run through Unity Editor on two computers)

* Things to remember to keep the users and their scenes synchronized:
  
  * All users will join the same scene. So, **the scene must be listed in the Scenes list of the Unity project**, under the project’s Build Settings, before building it for all users.
  
  * If you make changes to the scene or make a new scene, you’ll need to rebuild the app for all users.
  
  * All users will need to have their projects configured with the same Photon App ID (in the Photon settings), otherwise they will be in different Photon games and they won’t see each other. 
  
  * While running the app, before doing any activity in the game, all users must be connected. Otherwise things like creating 3D models through the menus may not synchronize for users that join the game late.

## Read More: Basic user interface

[Read the documentation on user interface](./2.2_Intro_to_User_Interactions_and_Menus.md)

## Some Known issues

* Clicking with the right hand has issues related to the wrist angle. You can do things with the left hand instead.

* Photon connectivity
  
  * There's a little network display window that follows the unity camera; if it's blue it means Photon connected properly, if it's purple it means there's a problem with networking
    * This happens when the current scene isn’t in the Scenes in Build list. When building the project, the scene you’re working in has to be in the Build Settings > Scenes in Build.
    * This sometimes happens if the project took too long to start (in that case, just restart it)

* Sending data to Arduino
  
  * When Unity sends too many messages, sometimes it sends multiple messages concatenated together or fragmented, and Arduino doesn’t receive them properly. {I think this is a threading issue in the SerialController class}
  
  * When Unity sends a serial message, it will also receive the same message. {I think this is an issue in the SerialController class}

### Read Next:

  [Table of Contents for All Documentation](./)

[Example Sample Scenes](./2.1_Sample_Scenes.md)

[Introduction to Interactions and Menus](./2.2_Intro_to_User_Interactions_and_Menus.md)

[Quick Introduction to the Code](./3.0_Quick_Introduction_to_the_Code.md)
