# 3.0. Quick Introduction to the Code



**Photon basics**



* Read about Photon Unity Networking: [https://doc.photonengine.com/en-us/pun/current/getting-started/pun-intro](https://doc.photonengine.com/en-us/pun/current/getting-started/pun-intro) 
* Connectivity: 
    * Photon connects multiple users through a cloud service. All users need to be connected to the internet, not necessarily on the same local network.
    * For this project, one PC running Unity must always be running because it manages objects and synchronization of scenes.
* Synchronization:
    * Networked data is synchronized between all users through PhotonViews.
* Ownership:
    * Only one user controls a PhotonView at one time. Only they can change its values. This user is called the ‘owner’ of the PhotonView.
    * This means when another user wants to change the data, they need to request ownership first.
* Instantiation:
    * When objects are created for all users, they are done through Photon’s Instantiate functions. Here is more info about them, and how to create objects that are initialized properly for all clients: [link](https://doc.photonengine.com/en-us/pun/current/gameplay/instantiation)
   
</br>**Data Channels and Models**



* Data in our project flows through named entities called channels. 
* A channel can get data from a Hololens or from the PC or from Arduino or all of the above. 
* Channel data can be controlled in a variety of ways (ex: knobs, buttons) and displayed in a variety of ways (ex: graphs, text, colors)
* Read the full [documentation here](./3.1_Data_and_Channels_.md)

</br>**Arduino Connection**



* Data can be sent from / to an Arduino connected to the computer running Unity editor.
* The data is done through channels (ie: the project can be configured so the Arduino receives data from one channel; or it sends data into one channel sent to all users).
* Read the full [documentation here](./3.2_Arduino_Connection.md)

 </br></br> *Read Next:*



* See the [Documentation Table of Contents ](./)for descriptions of other code pieces
